One day when Pandu was hunting in the forest he heard a noise coming from bushes far away. He aimed his bow and arrow and fired a series of arrows which stuck the source of noise. The source of the noise was a couple of deer who were involve in mating. 
The female deer died and the male deer was mortally wounded. The male deer revealed itself to be sage Kindama in the disguise of a deer so that he could mate with his wife to produce an offspring. 
Kindama reminded Pandu of his duty as a prince and the rules in the Vedas which prohibit anyone from killing creatures involved in mating. He then cursed Pandu that since he killed him when he was mating with his wife,  Pandu too would die immediately when he approached any of his wifes for sex. Uttering this curse, Kindama died.

Pandu informed both his wifes of the sage's curse. Pandu took an oath of celibacy and decided to retire to the forest to perform sever austerities. Kunti and Madri too decided to accompany him. And thus, they left to the Himalayas. 

Pandu was worried that without a son, his lineage would be stopped. He did not want this to happen. He needed a son who could rule Hasthinapura. But he was afraid of the curse. 
To solve this problem, Kunti reminded Pandu of a blessing she had received from Durvasa sage many years ago. With that mantra she could summon any god and the god would beget a child in her. Pandu was happy hearing this. 

Kunti summoned King of Dharma(Yama) and they gave birth to Yudishtira.
Kunti summoned Wind Go (Vaayu) and they gave birth to Bhima.
Kunti then summoned Indra and they gave birth to Arjuna. 

Pandu wanted more sons and approached Kunti again. She reminded him that a woman can give birth for a maximum of 3 times. So she decided to teach Madri the mantra as well. 
Madri summoned Ashvin and the twins Nakula and Sahadeva were begotten. 


But one day, when Pandu and Madri were wandering around the forest, Pandu got enticed by seeing Madri's beauty. He approached her to make love. Madri tried to stop him but both were overcome by lust and made love. Pandu immediately died. Kunti and Madri wept for their husband's demise. 
Kunti wanted to plunge into the funeral pyre along with her husband. But Madri decided that Kunti would be a better mother to look after their 5 chilren and advised Kunti that she will enter the flame instead of her. So Madri entered the funeral pyre of her husband and died. 
