Duryodhana plans to kill Bhima to weaken the Pandavas. Bhima was enormous in size and possessed superhuman strengths. Getting rid of him would pave the way for the destrution of the Pandavas. In order to achieve this, the evil Duryodhana arranged for water sports and other activities in a far off village near a river. He constructed a beautiful white mansion to house the Pandavas and the Kauravas where they would be provided with a wide variety of food and entertainment. The Pandavas agreed to this decision as they were unaware of Duryodhana's wicked plans. 

After sporting in the waters and playing some games and wrestling, the tired boys decided to take a bath and head towards the mansion for some food and rest. Duryodhana poisoned Bhima's food and himself served the food to Bhima by showing acts of fake love. Bhima consumed the food. However, nothing seemed to happen to the huge Bhima. Duryodhana was astonished. The princes decided to depart back home to Hasthinapura. When they were leaving, Bhima felt drowsy and fell unconcious on the river bank and then plunged into the river.
The river was the kingdom of the Naga serpents and they bit Bhima's flesh. The snake's poison acted like an anti-poison to the special poison given by Duryodhana to Bhima and this resulted in Bhima regaining his conciousness. When he saw the snake biting him, he killed it.
The other snakes got angry and captured Bhima and transported him to the abode of the Nagas which was headed by King Vasuki. 

King Vasuki realized that this huge boy was his great grandson. Vasuki was the grandfather of Kunti's father. Vasuki then used his divine vision to ascertai the cause of Bhima's poisoning and got to know that it was Duryodhana's antics. He apprised this to Bhima. 
Vasuki also gave multiple pots of sacred ghee to Bhima who gulped it down. This ghee gave Bhima the strength of 1000 elephants and instilled in him the ability to repel poison away. Vasuki then gave Bhima costly gifts and robes and paid his regard to Kunti and dropped him off at the river bank. Bhima headed back to his home with the white robes.

At home, Kunti was beginning to worry abut Bhima. All the other sons had returned. Late evening, Bhima came back home and narrated all the incidents that had transpired when they were out sporting in the mansion. Yudishtra then asked everyone to be aware of the Kauravas and to not provoke them or engage in warfare with the Kauravas. 
The Pandavas thus began ruling the kingdom and started winning the hearts of all their people. 