When the Pandavas and Kauravas had grown up and become young adults or entered teenage, they were to be educated in the training of arms and weapons. For this purpose, Dhritharashtra appointed Kripa as the teacher of the martial arts. Kripa was well versed in combat skills and the use of the spear, mace, sword and bow. He taught this to the Pandavas and Kauravas. The Pandavas and Kauravas became adept at all types of warfare. 
Arjuna had acquired exceptional skill in archery, Bhima had enormous strength and had acquired the skill of mace fighting. Nakula and Sahadeva had acquired sword fighting skills. 
Bhima and Duryudhana were fierce rivals. Each one wanted to fight against the other and defeat him in battle. Bhima and Duryodhana were constantly engaged in mace fighting drills where each one would try to overpower and defeat the other in the practice games. 

After a while, when the Kurus became experts in warfare and weaponry, they wanted to learn more. They wanted to learn the art of celestial weapons which are very powerful and can be used to cause massive losses to the enemy and which can also be used to fight against the celestial Rakshasas, Dhanavas, Gandharvas, etc. Kripa was not aware of the usage of celestial weapons and hence a Guru who could impart knowledge on these celestial weapons was needed. 

One day when the Pandavas and Kauravas were wandering about in the forest and playing ball games, their ball fell into a deep well. They were clueless on how to retrieve the ball that had fallen into the river. At the time when they were thinking about it, an old Brahmin sage came towards them. He looked a little unhealthy and weak as he had not eaten food from the past few days. Seeing the boys' commotion, he offered to help. He challenged the boys that he would not only be able to retrieve the ball, but to also retrieve his own ring which he threw into the well. The Pandavas were astonished. They asked the Brahmin sage to retrieve the ball. The sage then shot one arrow behind the other and arranged the arrows in such a way that they joined together to form a long straight chain. Using the chain of arrows, the sage easily retrieved the ball as well as his own ring. The Pandavas were impressed and asked him who he was.
The sage replied that he was Drona and that he had no job and that he would like to work in Dhrithrashtra's kingdom as their martial arts teacher. The Pandavas readily agreed and escorted him to Dhrithrashtra. Dhrithrashtra then appointed Drona as the teacher of celestial weapons. 

Drona had expert knowledge on the use of celestial weapons and he imparted this knowledge to Arjuna and the other Pandavas and Kauravas which greatly increased their skills and power in battle. Drona was impartial between the Pandavas and Kauravas but he had a slight liking to the virtuous character possesed by the Pandavas. Drona was more attached to Arjuna than to his own son Ashwatthama. He had high hopes on Arjuna and was well aware of his strengths and ability as an archer and his skill to weild the celestial weapons. 

Reason for favoring Arjuna:

Since Duryodhana kept accusing Drona that he alwasy favoured Arjuna, Drona decided to keep a simple test. He kept a wooden bird on top of a tree branch and asked his pupils to shoot the eye of the wooden bird. 
First came Yudhishtra. Drona asked what he could see. He replied that he was able to see the bird, the tree branches, leaves and other birds.
All the others gave the same reply.
Then came Arjuna. He confidently aimed the arrow and said that he was only able to see the bird's eye. He was sucessful in shooting the bird's eye which earned Arjuna's praise. 

#Story of Ekalavya

Ekalavya was a young and aspiring bowman who was born in a Nishada tribe. He had heard about the virtuous and great Drona who was imparting education to the Kurus. He wanted to be under the tutelage of Drona too and to be trained under him. He thus approached Drona asking him if he could be his Guru. Drona declined his offer stating that Ekalavya was not a kshatriya and also that he was to teach only the Kurus and not a random boy. Thus Ekalavya retired to the forest where he was determined to get educated under the guidance of Drona. 
Ekalavya created an idol/statue of his Guru Drona and installed it in his place of practice. He offered obeisances to his reverred Guru Drona and continued his practice with devotion. 

Once, when Arjuna was sporting in the nearby forest, he heard a dog barking loudly. Ekalavya heard this too and he fired a volley of arrows just by following the source of the barking sound. In a few seconds the arrows sealed and stitched the mouth of the dog. Arjuna found the dog with the arrows covering its mouth. He was impressed. He then found out who the expert archer was and found out that he was Ekalavya. 
Arjuna was overcome with a mixture of suprise, envy, jealousy and astonishment and he asked Ekalavya who his Guru was. Ekalavya revealed that Drona was his Guru. Hearing this Arjuna became angry and took Ekalavya to Drona and narrated the incident.
Drona became angry and told Ekalavya that it was against his principles to betray the Kurus by imparting education to an outsider. He then asked Ekalavya to offer Guru Dakshina. Ekalavya had nothing to give. Seeing this, Drona asked Ekalavya to offer the most important thing which is required for an archer and that is his thumb. This Ekalavya took a pocket knife and cut off his thumb and offered it to Drona as Guru Dakshina and left. 

Martial arts exhibition

Once the boys were well trained and ready to implement their teachings, Drona decided to host an exhibiton. The exhibition was to be held in a huge hall where kings from different territories came to witness the spectacle. Dhritharashtra too came to the exhibiton and was updated on the events by Kripa. 
Arjuna displayed his excellent skills in archery and Bhima displayed his excellent mace fighting skills and his enormous superhuman strength. Duryodhana and Kauravas too displayed their excellent skills. Everyone was amazed and lauded the skill exhibiton of the Pandavas and Kauravas. 
But suddenly a man shining like the Sun walked out to the middle out of nowhere wanting to take part in the exhibition. He had a natural armour around his body and looked strong and sturdy. He was Karna born from the sun god who was Kunti's first child. Kunti had given birth to Karna after experimenting with the mantra given by Durvasa sage. She then put him in a basket and sent him across on a river scaring that she would be chastised for giving birth before marriage. A charioteer found the baby and raised him. The charioteer was Adhiratha. 
Karna equalled Arjuna in his exhibiton of skills and openly challenged Arjuna to battle. Arjuna was hesitant. He then told that he can fight only with a Kshatriya and not a son of a charioteer. 
Duryodhana was impressed by Karna and decided to pull him to his side. He praised Karna and gave him the kingdon of Anga and made Karna as the king of Anga. Karna was happy and did not know how to repay Duryudhana. He decided to support Duryodhana and be grateful to him for making him a king. Duryodhana now exclaimed that since Karna was a king, there was no wrong in Arjuna fighting him. 
But by that time, it had grown dark and the elders decided to stop the exhibiton. Kunti was also relieved as she did not want to see their sons fight each other. 